.. _noi.coming: 
.. _noi.v18.11.1:

=============================
18.11.1 (released 2018-12-12)
=============================

.. contents::
  :local:

DONE
====

- MyTicketsToWork and TicketsBySite are now a list, not a summary.
  Both lists are sorted by priority. Not yet
  sure how to sort tickets of same priority.

- New summary fields showing the worked time per ticket (and per reporting type)

- Reviewed the detail layout of a site.

TODO
====

- My notification messages : reverse sort order. Add "Mark all read" to toolbar
  in dashboard.

- AssignToMe should not be possible for new tickets.  Maybe take the
  whole assignment stuff into a separate virtual field "Assigned to"
  which says e.g. "Luc --> [Hamza] [Tonis]".

- New model comments.Feedback (comment, user, answer) : comment is a
  pointer to the question, answer a pointer the comment, user is the user who is
  asked to respond.  A state field would currently be "Waiting for answer" and
  "Answered", which can be expressed by answer being None, so there is no need for a state field right now.
  Maybe later we can add a priority ("urgent", "normal" and "low")
  A table that shows a list of the comments for which my feedback is requested.
  A welcome message "You have X feedback requests" if the user doesn't have this table in the dashboard.

  As a user when i have written a comment, i must somehow specify whether i
  want feedback.  I should be able to specify a precise user, or say "everybody
  on this site", or "no feedback required". Or automatically if I say @username
  in the comment text, Lino would automatically generate a feedback request.


TALK
====

- Luc doesn't want to have to manually subscribe to every new site in
  order to see it in the *My sites* list.  Tonis and Hamza on the
  other hand don't want to get bothered with sites for which they
  didn't explicitly subscribe.  Maybe Tonis and Hamza should simply
  disable the *My sites* widget in their dashboard?
  
  Developers who don't care about project management actually
  shouldn't need to worry about sites.  They shouldn't be allowed to
  change neither site nor priority of a ticket.  They just look at
  their todo list and pick a ticket to work on.
  
  OTOH at least Tonis uses internal sites for classifying his tickets
  and priorities.  Should we differentiate between "customer sites"
  and "internal sites"?
  
- Add a filter param on Tickets to show only tickets in sites that are
  in an exposed state.

  But there are already so many filter parameters on tickets. Can't
  you just go to the site detail?

- A text field "Post a comment" in the detail of a ticket.  This would
  be a virtual field `Commentable.post_comment`, The field would be
  editable and the setter would add a comment with self as owner.

- Have per ticket a list of comments and other tickets that refer to
  this ticket in their text (i.e. the body of a command or the
  :attr:`description` of a ticket.  When saving a comment, Lino parses
  the :attr:`body` and searches for memo commands.  But this time the
  purpose is to fill a list of referred objects, not to render them.

  :meth:`lino.modlib.memo.parser.Parser.register_django_model`

  :attr:`lino.modlib.memo.parser`

- **Notifications** There seems to be a design flaw in our
  notifications and commenting system. Discussing directly on Jane is
  not yet efficient. Maybe we could replace the "My notifications" by
  a table "My discussions" where you get a list of recent comments by
  others to which you did not yet react. Reacting to a comment could
  mean to simply click a "Like" or "Seen" button. And the
  notifications themselves would no longer have a "seen" marker. They
  just get sent as desktop notification and/or via email and then
  disappear.

  Deprecate the feature that every notification can be assigned to a
  database object (`owner`), and subsequent notifications are
  automatically filtered away as long as there are unseen messages for
  the same `owner` and recipient.

- Add the concept of **hour contingents** per site.  Each session
  report would debit the contingent.  The contingent gets credited
  when the customer buys working hours.  Make new service reports
  registrable and dated.  New field :attr:`Session.report` which is
  set to the report when the report is registered.  Disable editing
  Sessions having this field non-empty because they have been
  reported.  This could be registered in a working.ServiceReport if we
  accept to have only one ServiceReport per site.  But currently a
  ServiceReport covers all the sites and this might be a useful
  feature.

  So maybe keep the current working.ServiceReport as is and make
  something similar.  Maybe in a new plugin `contingents` which
  depends on `working` and `tickets`.  `contingents.ServiceReport`
  would be similar to the current `working.ServiceReport`.
  `contingents.ReportsBySite` would be a table of service reports on a
  site, with columns (date, debit, credit, remark).  A new excerpt
  type for Site which prints that table.

- Don't allow new sessions on a ticket without a site or whose site is
  closed.  See :blogref:`20181111`.

- Remove ReportingTypes choicelist and its fields `reporting_type` (in Session,
  Ticket and Site) and replace it by :attr:`Session.discount`, a percentage
  expressing how much of this session is given away for free (not to be
  invoiced).
  

